README.md, before:


# Fomantic UI - jQuery - ES6 Boilerplate
A boilerplate for advanced content and forms.

## What's included on package.json
  - [webpack v4](https://webpack.js.org/guides/installation/) - Asset Bundler.
    - Configuration for multiple [environments](#environments) and CDNs.
    - [Bundle Analyser](https://github.com/webpack-contrib/webpack-bundle-analyzer)
  - [Babel v7](https://babeljs.io/) - ES6 javascript compiler.
    - Configuration for ie11 support.
  - [IDE tools - ESLint](#IDE-tools-ESLint)
  - [Sass](http://sass-lang.com/) and [Compass mixins](https://github.com/askucher/compass-sass-mixins) - Scss compiler and utils.

## What's included with simple CDN load
  - [Fomantic UI 2.8.7](https://Fomantic-ui.com) - User Interface is the language of the web.
    - Loaded by CDN url.
  - [Ionicons 4.5.10-0](https://ionicons.com/v4/) - Font icons.
    - Fonts are loaded by cdn url by default, but boilerplate contains an example if you prefer to load them with webpack.
  - [jQuery, v3.5.1](https://jquery.com/) - Event management and DOM manipulation.
    - Jquery is loaded by cdn url by default, but boilerplate contains a webpack configuration and a js example if you prefer to load it with webpack. Just uncomment `Expose jQuery` section on the `wepack.common.js` file and `src/index.js`.


### Some custom scss/css helpers:
  - Scss utils. (utils.scss)
  - Scss font face example. (_fonts.scss)
  - A flexbox scss mixin helper. (_flexbox.scss)
  - A missing scss mixin for the placeholder. (_input-placeholder.scss)

## Folder structure
### Needed on Distribution / Live
```
|- /dist
```
Only the contents of the `dist` folder are needed for production.

### Needed for Development / Local
```
*.* (All project's files)
```

## IDE tools, ESLint
This boilerplate comes with these files on root:
- .editorconfig
- .eslintrc.json
- .eslintignore

 Your IDE might need some plugins to be installed in order to recognize those files. You can change the rules/configuration on these files based on your project needs.

Related Links:
- https://editorconfig.org/
- https://eslint.org/docs/user-guide/getting-started#installation-and-usage

## Environments
- Local aka dev.
  - webpack mode: 'development'.
  - _cdnPublicFolder.scss is loaded from './src/common/sass/cdnPublicFolder/dev', "cdnFile" sass mixin and returns: ''.

- Production aka live.
  - webpack mode: 'production'.
  - _cdnPublicFolder.scss is loaded from './src/common/sass/cdnPublicFolder/live', "cdnFile" sass mixin and returns: ''.

Concept:
  1. https://webpack.js.org/concepts/mode/
  2. [CDN public urls on scss](#CDN-public-urls-on-scss)

## CDN public urls on scss
If your website uses CDNs for the images, css might require different urls per
environment. For example an image preloader could have this url on development environment:

```scss
.preloader {
  background: transparent url("/img/ajax-loader.gif") no-repeat center center;
}
```
This on testing and live environment:
```scss
.preloader {
  background: transparent url("/_commonFiles/img/ajax-loader.gif") no-repeat center center;
}
```

For this purpose for each environment we will create a sass mixin `cdnFile` and use that instead of the `url` rule.

```scss
@import "_cdnPublicFolder.scss";

.preloader {
  background: transparent cdnFile("/img/ajax-loader.gif") no-repeat center center;
}
```

Edit these folders/files:
```
|- /src
  |- /sass
    |- /cdnPublicFolder
      |- /dev
        |- _cdnPublicFolder.scss
      |- /live
        |- _cdnPublicFolder.scss
```

`./src/sass/cdnPublicFolder/dev/_cdnPublicFolder.scss` contents:
```scss
// For Development environment.
$commonFileBasePath: '';

@function cdnFile($file) {
  @return url($commonFileBasePath + $file);
}
```

`./src/sass/cdnPublicFolder/live/_cdnPublicFolder.scss` contents:
```scss
// For Live environment.
$commonFileBasePath: '/_commonFiles';

@function cdnFile($file) {
  @return url($commonFileBasePath + $file);
}
```

## Demo page / Installation
1. Fork/ Download this project
2. [Install Nodejs/NPM](#Install-Nodejs/NPM) (Skip this if you already have nodejs installed)
3. From the project's root run:
```
  npm install
```
4. Start development..
```
  npm run watch
  npm run live-reload
```

Or build the bundle for live and open `dist/index.html` on your browser.
```
  npm run build:live
```

## NPM tasks
Watch files for changes and rebuild app:
```
npm run watch
```

Opens app on your default Browser and reloads page on changes.
```
npm run live-reload
```

Build the app for local development:
```
npm run build
```

Build the app for the production server:
```
npm run build:live
```

Make a bundle and view the stats:
```
npm run bundle-stats
```
Also creates a `bundle-stats.json` file.

Commit message:

Update webpack from 4 to 5, and other.
- Migrate scripts
- Update related dependencies
- Live reload does not work.
- Update Docs

README.md, after:


# Fomantic UI - jQuery - ES6 Boilerplate
A boilerplate for advanced content and forms.

## What's included on package.json
  - [webpack v5](https://webpack.js.org/) - Asset Bundler.
    - Configuration for multiple [environments](#environments) and CDNs.
    - [Bundle Analyser](https://github.com/webpack-contrib/webpack-bundle-analyzer)
  - [Babel v7](https://babeljs.io/) - ES6 javascript compiler.
    - Configuration for ie11 support.
  - [IDE tools - ESLint v5](#IDE-tools-ESLint)
  - [Sass](http://sass-lang.com/) and [Compass mixins](https://github.com/askucher/compass-sass-mixins) - Scss compiler and utils.

## What's included with simple CDN load
  - [Fomantic UI 2.8.7](https://Fomantic-ui.com) - User Interface is the language of the web.
    - Loaded by CDN url. You can easily update the version.
  - [Ionicons 4.5.10-0](https://ionicons.com/v4/) - Font icons.
    - Fonts are loaded by cdn url by default, but boilerplate contains an example if you prefer to load them with webpack.
  - [jQuery, v3.5.1](https://jquery.com/) - Event management and DOM manipulation.
    . Loaded by CDN url. You can easily update the version.
    - We have a webpack commented configuration and a js example if you prefer to load it with webpack. Just uncomment `Expose jQuery` section on the `wepack.common.js` file and `src/index.js`.


### Some custom scss/css helpers:
  - Scss utils. (utils.scss)
  - Scss font face example. (_fonts.scss)
  - A flexbox scss mixin helper. (_flexbox.scss)
  - A missing scss mixin for the placeholder. (_input-placeholder.scss)

## Folder structure
### Needed on Distribution / Live
```
|- /dist
```
Only the contents of the `dist` folder are needed for production.

### Needed for Development / Local
```
*.* (All project's files)
```

## IDE tools, ESLint
This boilerplate comes with these files on root:
- .editorconfig
- .eslintrc.json
- .eslintignore

 Your IDE might need some plugins to be installed in order to recognize those files. You can change the rules/configuration on these files based on your project needs.

Related Links:
- https://editorconfig.org/
- https://eslint.org/docs/user-guide/getting-started#installation-and-usage

## Environments
- Local aka dev.
  - webpack mode: 'development'.
  - _cdnPublicFolder.scss is loaded from './src/common/sass/cdnPublicFolder/dev', "cdnFile" sass mixin and returns: ''.

- Production aka live.
  - webpack mode: 'production'.
  - _cdnPublicFolder.scss is loaded from './src/common/sass/cdnPublicFolder/live', "cdnFile" sass mixin and returns: ''.

Concept:
  1. https://webpack.js.org/concepts/mode/
  2. [CDN public urls on scss](#CDN-public-urls-on-scss)

## CDN public urls on scss
**This might not work. Not tested with webpack 5**
If your website uses CDNs for the images, css might require different urls per
environment. For example an image preloader could have this url on development environment:

```scss
.preloader {
  background: transparent url("/img/ajax-loader.gif") no-repeat center center;
}
```
This on testing and live environment:
```scss
.preloader {
  background: transparent url("/_commonFiles/img/ajax-loader.gif") no-repeat center center;
}
```

For this purpose for each environment we will create a sass mixin `cdnFile` and use that instead of the `url` rule.

```scss
@import "_cdnPublicFolder.scss";

.preloader {
  background: transparent cdnFile("/img/ajax-loader.gif") no-repeat center center;
}
```

Edit these folders/files:
```
|- /src
  |- /sass
    |- /cdnPublicFolder
      |- /dev
        |- _cdnPublicFolder.scss
      |- /live
        |- _cdnPublicFolder.scss
```

`./src/sass/cdnPublicFolder/dev/_cdnPublicFolder.scss` contents:
```scss
// For Development environment.
$commonFileBasePath: '';

@function cdnFile($file) {
  @return url($commonFileBasePath + $file);
}
```

`./src/sass/cdnPublicFolder/live/_cdnPublicFolder.scss` contents:
```scss
// For Live environment.
$commonFileBasePath: '/_commonFiles';

@function cdnFile($file) {
  @return url($commonFileBasePath + $file);
}
```

## Demo page / Installation
1. Fork/ Download this project
2. [Install Nodejs/NPM](#Install-Nodejs/NPM) (Skip this if you already have nodejs installed)
3. From the project's root run:
```
  npm install
```
4. Start development..
```
  npm run watch
  npm run live-reload
```

Or build the bundle for live and open `dist/index.html` on your browser.
```
  npm run build:live
```

## NPM tasks
Watch files for changes and rebuild app:
```
npm run watch
```


Opens app on your default Browser and reloads page on changes.
**Note that the reloading is currently broken with webpack v5.**
```
npm run live-reload
```

Build the app for local development:
```
npm run build
```

Build the app for the production server:
```
npm run build:live
```

Make a bundle and view the stats:
```
npm run bundle-stats
```
Also creates a `bundle-stats.json` file.
